Document periodic unreviewed code triage process (#205)
hexatomic/hexatomic: docs/dev/src/maintenance/unreviewed-code-triage.md

# Periodic unreviewed code triage

Hotfixes can be merged with no code review if there is only one maintainer available.
To still be able to perform some kind of review, periodic triages of yet unreviewed code are performed by one of the maintainers.

These triages must be done *once at the beginning of each quarter of the year*.
The time of the last triage and any findings are logged in the file `TRIAGE.md` in the main repository.

## Determining what changed since the last triage

Open the list of all pull requests in GitHub and filter by the "unreviewed" label and sort them to show the oldest ones first.
If there are no pull requests which such a label, the triage is finished and you can proceed to the "Documenting the results" section.

Next, open `TRIAGE.md` file and check which commit of the master branch was last triaged.
Create a new branch from this commit.
**This branch should never be merged into another branch.**

> For each of the pull requests with the label, merge the tip commit of the pull request into your branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each of the pull requests with the `unreviewed` label, merge the tip commit of the pull request into your branch.
```

Add label name for clarity.

> It can happen that there is a conflict because for example reviewed PRs with larger features have been added in between the non-reviewed hotfix PRs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this stage, conflicts may appear, which may, for example, be due to the addition of reviewed PRs with larger features in between non-reviewed hotfix PRs.
```

> If there is any conflict, abort the merge and review the current changes until this point and start a new triage with the commit before the merge commit of the problematic PR as a starting point.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there is any conflict, abort the merge, review the current changes up to this point, and start a new triage with the last commit before the merge commit of the problematic PR as a starting point.
```

Resolve duplicate "and".

> For example in the following history of pull requests, there would be two triages: one for PR 1 and 2 starting from the last triaged master commit, and one triage from the PR X commit (which was reviewed) that includes PR 4 and 5.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, in the following history of pull requests, there would be two triages: one triage for PRs 1 and 2, starting from the last triaged master commit, and one triage from the PR X commit (which was reviewed) that includes PRs 4 and 5.
```

Fix legibility.

```plain
last triaged commit
        |
        v
        + <-- PR 1 (not reviewed)
        |
        v
        + <-- PR 2 (not reviewed)
        |
        v
        + <-- PR X (reviewed)
        |
        v
    conflict! <-- PR 4 (not reviewed)
        |
        v     <-- PR 5 (not reviewed)

```

> When you have merged all the pull requests for included in this triage, compare the changes of the branch with the previously triaged commit and review the code changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you have merged all the pull requests included in this triage, compare the changes of the branch with the previously triaged commit and review the code changes.
```

Fix typo.

> To compare the changes, you can use the git command line (`git diff <last-triaged-commit> HEAD`), a graphical git diff tool or even the GitHub "compare branches" feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To compare the changes, you can use the git command line (`git diff <last-triaged-commit> HEAD`), a graphical git diff tool, or the GitHub "compare branches" feature.
```

Fix wording.

> For each problem you find, create a new issue in the GitHub issue tracker and add document it in the `TRIAGE.md` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each problem you find, create a new issue in the GitHub issue tracker and add it to the `UNREVIEWED_CODE_TRIAGE.md` file.
```

Fix typo & wording. Change file name.

> At the end of the triage and after all issues are documented, remove the "unreviewed" label from the triaged pull requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the end of the triage and after all issues have been documented, remove the `unreviewed` label from the triaged pull requests.
```

Fix grammar / change label format.

## Documenting the results

Each triage should have its own section in the `TRIAGE.md` file.

> New triages result are added to the top of the file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
New triage results are added to the top of the file.
```

> The heading is the date and if a conflict occurred during merging the PRs, which part of the PR collection (e.g. "Part 1", "Part 2", etc.).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the date on which the triage has been completed as the header of the triage section.
If a conflict occurred during the merge of the PRs, and you have had to split the set of PRs that you need to triage as explained above, also add "Set" and the consecutive number of the set in the order of processing, e.g., `# 2020-08-27 (Set 1)`, `# 2020-08-27 (Set 2)`, etc.
```

Fix wording and clarify the meaning of "Part"/"Set".

> After the heading, the person who did the triage, the revision hash of the start/end commit and a list of PRs that where included in the triage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below the heading, record 

- a link to the GitHub user page of the person who did the triage, 
- the revision hash range **on the master branch** of the first and last commit you have triaged in the triaged set (or the whole triage if you didn't have to split it),
- a list of PRs that where included in the triage.
```

Improve understandability, and legibility by introducing a list.

> Then add a list entry for each issue you found.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, add a list entry for each issue you found,  with the issue title and number URL, for example:

```

Clarify how to create the list. Actual code block comes with a commit.

# Periodic unreviewed code triage

Hotfixes can be merged with no code review if there is only one maintainer available.
To still be able to perform some kind of review, periodic triages of yet unreviewed code are performed by one of the maintainers.

These triages must be done *once at the beginning of each quarter of the year*.

> The time of the last triage and any findings are logged in the file `TRIAGE.md` in the main repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The time of the last triage and any findings are logged in the file `UNREVIEWED_CODE_TRIAGE.md` in the main repository.
```

Rename file.

## Determining what changed since the last triage

Open the list of all pull requests in GitHub and filter by the "unreviewed" label and sort them to show the oldest ones first.
If there are no pull requests which such a label, the triage is finished and you can proceed to the "Documenting the results" section.

> Next, open `TRIAGE.md` file and check which commit of the master branch was last triaged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, open the file `UNREVIEWED_CODE_TRIAGE.md` and check which commit of the master branch was last triaged.
```
Rename file.

For example in the following history of pull requests, there would be two triages: one for PR 1 and 2 starting from the last triaged master commit, and one triage from the PR X commit (which was reviewed) that includes PR 4 and 5.

```plain
last triaged commit
        |
        v
        + <-- PR 1 (not reviewed)
        |
        v
        + <-- PR 2 (not reviewed)
        |
        v
        + <-- PR X (reviewed)
        |
        v
    conflict! <-- PR 4 (not reviewed)
        |
        v     <-- PR 5 (not reviewed)

```

When you have merged all the pull requests for included in this triage, compare the changes of the branch with the previously triaged commit and review the code changes.
To compare the changes, you can use the git command line (`git diff <last-triaged-commit> HEAD`), a graphical git diff tool or even the GitHub "compare branches" feature.
For each problem you find, create a new issue in the GitHub issue tracker and add document it in the `TRIAGE.md` file.

At the end of the triage and after all issues are documented, remove the "unreviewed" label from the triaged pull requests.

## Documenting the results

> Each triage should have its own section in the `TRIAGE.md` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each triage should have its own section in the `UNREVIEWED_CODE_TRIAGE.md` file.
```

New triages result are added to the top of the file.

The heading is the date and if a conflict occurred during merging the PRs, which part of the PR collection (e.g. "Part 1", "Part 2", etc.).
After the heading, the person who did the triage, the revision hash of the start/end commit and a list of PRs that where included in the triage.
Then add a list entry for each issue you found.

>  ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 ```markdown
```

Add language specs to code fence.

> - https://github.com/hexatomic/hexatomic/issues/123

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Resolve settings for running from within Eclipse in docs #197
```

Change format to the one used in the example file.

> - https://github.com/hexatomic/hexatomic/issues/456

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- TestGraphEditor.testShowSaltExample times out #202
```

See above.

```

> ### Examples for a triage result

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Examples for triage results
```

Should be plural.

First part of a triage which was split due to conflicts.

```markdown

> ## 2020-08-07 (Part 1)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 2020-08-07 (Set 1)
```

Change to agreed upon term.

Triage done by [thomaskrause](github.com/thomaskrause). 
Revison range: 758884326b3e3a6b29f54418158e4cc0204be525..874720de8fd6d5b415edad9a66412719abf49279
PRs: #199, #127, #138

### Issues

- Resolve settings for running from within Eclipse in docs #197
- TestGraphEditor.testShowSaltExample times out #202

```

> Triage where no unreviewed pull requests have been found. You can omit the start revision hash in this case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example file section for a triage where no unreviewed pull requests have been found. You can omit the start revision hash in this case.
```

Specify what's shown here.
